---
layout: post
title:      "   Arrival"
date:       2018-06-06 15:21:09 +0000
permalink:  arrival
---


The Journey of my programming experience started a long time ago, when I was a kid. I was the type of kid who was facinated with technology. Anything I could get my hands on that was computerized I did which set me on a path to where I am today. The beginning of my facination in programming has its roots in my experiences with early gaming consoles. I've played most of the big-name consoles starting with Sega Genesis/Super Nintendo. These games facinated me, it wasn't just watching TV, I was controlling the TV and that was awesome. I made my way through the different platforms, Playstation, Xbox, Nintendo systems and had tons of fun playing each and every game I got my hands on. Eventually I was introduced to gaming on PC. I started with simple flash games and the like but soon found my first MMORPG, RuneScape. This game facinated me, it took two of my favorite things at the time, Medieval Times and video games. This game captivated me for years to come, there was just so much you could do, a huge variety of content including training combat skills, non-combat skills (survival/crafting ect), going on adventures, fighting various creatures, monsters, and even other players. 

Fast forward a bit to High School, this is where my journey into programming truely began. I was so interested in RuneScape I started to look into how it was that they made a game like that. I learned that it was programmed in a language called Java and it was there that I started my path. I found some websites that talked about open source knock-offs of the game I held so dear, it was in the pages of those sites that I started to teach myself Java and the concepts of programming. 

I love problem solving, and that's what this new experience provided for me. Problems upon problems that I could solve, just to move onto the next one and work at it again. I worked with Java all through my years in high school, which culminated in me taking an AP Computer Science class that focused on Java. I had learned so much on my own by that point that, comically enough, I seemed to know the language better than the teacher did and ended up teaching it to the class on multiple occasions. Granted I think the teacher had experience in other languages but was starting with Java fresh as it was the first time that class had been offered at the school.

I moved from High School into the local community college as my family did not have very much money and I wasn't thrilled at the prospect of student loans. I wanted a degree in Computer Science and thats what I worked for. I started on the course path that would get me that degree, taking multiple classes in C, C++, and Java. Eventually things took a turn for the worst in my home life and I was forced to put schooling on hold so I could find a job and help out my family. That didn't stop me from learning though, despite the fact that I worked at a Rebar Fabrication company, starting in the yard, I eventually proved to the management that I could be very useful in the office, specifically working with their estimator spreadsheets and the various excel-driven programs they used to keep the business running. It was there I taught myself the language of programming macros in Microsoft products, Visual Basic. I built onto a few of their main programs, most noteable an order tagging system that facilitated the flow from the office, to the yard, to the customer, as well as their estimating program that helped them price out the jobs and delivery costs/charges. 

After that I moved from job to job for a bit, eventually taking a tech support job at a company called HelloTech which provided on-demand tech support to customers at their own homes. I did that for a while as an independent contractor then moved into the insurance business. During my tenure there I programmed a few different Excel sheets to help facilitate business quicker as well as calculation programs that were used in the everyday presentations of the business. 

During my time in the Insurance buisiness I had my first son. His mother started a job soon after he was born that was bringing in a decent amount of money and we decided I would stay home and take care of our son while she worked. We have now arrived at the present. I decided to try and figure out a way to put us in a better place and started looking into programming as a way to do that. I'm excited to be a student at FlatIron Schools and strive to be one of the most hardworking ones enrolled. God only knows, what the future has in store for me, and he also knows how much I am looking forward to it.

Until next time,
Richard Austin Melchior
